The health insurance company we're talking about today is
called LIC of India. The Indian stock
market guru, Mr. Rakesh Jhunjhunwala, has already
promoted this company and has a
stake of 14% in the company. Hello friends,
you're watching Ditto Insurance. I'm
Shashank, and today we're going to talk
about Star Health Insurance. Is this
company really worth your trust and money? Are
their plans the best
options in the market? And most importantly, will they stand by you when you really
need them?
But before we start the video,
if you need
completely spam-free and transparent
advice on health or term insurance, you can book a free consultation with us. We've been
in the market for over 10,000 years. We're India
's first standalone health
insurance provider. Their IPO was
launched in 2021, which was worth ₹7,234 crore.
Sounds impressive, right? But
actual performance is more important than credentials.
So, let's look at the numbers.
Star Health's CSR is a claim
settlement ratio of 83, which is
well behind the best players in the industry. Compare this to
AAC Ergo at 98 or Care Health at 90.
Star Health's claim rejection rate
is quite high, meaning 17 out of every 100 claims are
rejected. This can be a very worrying
situation. They have
over 14,000 network hospitals. As you
can see, Star Health has a very
large network, but many hospitals have
also blacklisted them due to
delayed payments and procedural issues. So, the
numbers you see may
not be useful in your case. Star Health has recently
revamped its plans and now
offers three major comprehensive plans. The
first is Superstar, their newest and most
modern plan. The second is Comprehensive, which has been their best-selling plan for quite some time. The third is HealthShort,
a balanced plan that
also covers maternity and T-shirt treatment.
First, let's look at the Superstar plan and
what it offers.  It's a
revolutionary plan in the industry, offering a freeze-your-age
feature. This means
your premium wo
n't increase until you file a claim. Another interesting feature is
their AI-driven face scan technology,
which can analyze your vital health parameters. There's
also a Quick Shield add-on, which reduces the
waiting period for conditions like diabetes and hypertension to just 30 days.
This feature is very useful. The
next plan
is their Compr ...
Let's see which one is from which section: Cancer
Care Platinum, which is for cancer patients;
Cardia Care Platinum, which is
for heart patients; Women Care, which provides
coverage for female-specific conditions; and
Super Surplus Gold, a top-up plan with
only a one-year PD waiting period. But there is
a problem with Star Health. The
CSR at 83 is quite concerning, no doubt.
But when we talk about complaints, there are
46 complaints for every 10,000 claims.
Compare.
Call Satisfactorily and confirm that they are offering Star
Health cashless claims. Second,
read and understand every policy detail carefully,
as you will need to keep in mind the waiting periods and sub-
limits.
Talk to an experienced insurance advisor
who will help you choose the best policy.
Finally, should you buy Star Health?
Some of the features of the Superstar plan
are quite innovative, and if you have a high
risk profile, such as diabetes or
hypertension, then this can be a good option.
But if you have a  You want reliable and hassle-free
claim settlement. There are other better
insurances in the market like ADAC Ergo
Care Health, ICICI Lombard and Aditya
Birla. Ultimately, health insurance is not just
about features that look good on paper; it is
more important to have an insurance that supports you in your most crucial times.
Star Health can
definitely be a
strong contender if it improves its processes in the future, but by the age
of 2025, according to our analysis, there are
better options available. If you
need personalized health or term insurance advice, book a free consultation with our experts. The
link is
in the description. And remember, we only
provide spam-free and honest advice. That's all for this
video. I will meet you
in the next video. Till then, happy insurance
hunting.